My one piece of advice would be to listen.
To listen to what folks are telling you. They know themselves,
they are the experts in their own experience in the healthcare system.
They have already likely faced stigma in the healthcare system and if somebody's
coming to you because they have a concern, if they're coming to you
and willing to talk to you about those things and open up to
you, that means that they need something and it's our role to be
able to step in and create a safe space for folks to be
able to talk about those things and address their concerns in a way
that's going to work for them. So my number one thing would be
to listen. When people are stigmatized, they tend to be treated poorly like
with whether they're addicted to drugs, if they're homeless, they feel that
people look down on them and it makes it harder for them to
get care in any sort of setting because
in so many ways, they're just treated horribly so then they don't want to
go back to the hospital. So there's a variety of different folks in
the community that are accessing Insite because it's a safe consumption
site, the people that are here are folks that are using drugs so
the majority of the folks that access our site
use injection drugs and that's a variety of different substances. Insite's
main mission is to meet people where they're at regardless of any sort
of like mental illness, physical problems, drug addiction, criminal history.
Folks are coming in to have a safe site to inject at a
safe space to do that, a place where they can be asking questions
and talking to nursing staff. It's managed between the Portland Hotel Society
and Vancouver Coastal Health. Obviously, we are an overdose prevention site.
People come here to use. They can get their drugs tested here.
We also have nursing services that people can access
for a lot of care that they, like if they're not able to
go to other clinics and stuff like that due to stigma or if
they're just uncomfortable going to the hospital. We also have a detox centre
upstairs. We do a lot of education about ways that folks can prevent
overdose or if they've had an overdose talking about those aftercare things
and being able to monitor and making sure folks have the tools that
they need in the future so that they can be protecting themselves and
take care of the people around them. They're scared to get this sort of,
like any sort of treatment. They feel shameful about themselves and they
feel that they almost deserve nothing. For nursing care at the site,
we see folks, so we talk about safer injecting practices, so looking at
ways that people can prevent infection. So how important it is to be
swabbing your skin every single time you poke, how important it is to
be changing your rig so that it's not a dull needle that you're
putting into your skin. At the site, we also do some other basic
healthcare stuff. So we have a treatment room, which is great because we're
able to do some basic wound care for folks. We also have nurses
that are STI certified at the site. So we can do STI testing
and treatment. We have nurses that are certified to do the HIV point
of care testing and treatment, which is really great. So somewhere like
Insite, we treat people with like a normal human being, which is how
any person should be treated regardless of their situation.
Stigma, it makes everyone's life harder where our whole goal is like in
harm reduction is to just give people the care they deserve.
Everyone in the world deserves to be cared for. When I first started
at Insite, I was blown away by the sense of community that exists
in this room. The camaraderie among participants and staff at the site,
the beautiful relationships and really good environment that exists in here.
So it was just really cool coming from a different healthcare setting to
be able to see that sense of community and the way that people
can talk about things so frankly and openly, whereas in so many other
environments, people feel like they have to hide their drug use.
So that was just really cool to see that sense of community here.